docs: Documentation refresh (#47)
canonical/awspub: docs/howto_publish.rst

How to publish images
=====================

To publish a VMDK file as an image (AMI) on AWS EC2 with `awspub`,
a config file is required.

> A basic config file looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A basic config file (say ``config.yaml``) looks like:
```

public so can only be used from within the same account.

.. note::
   The command can be run again without publishing anything new as long as the source path file
   and the config itself doesn't change.

Multiple images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's possible to publish multiple images based on the same VMDK file. The configuration looks like:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-multiple-images.yaml
   :language: yaml

Running `awspub` now will publish 2 images in 2 different regions.

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image": {
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0b9ed498e040c69e2"
      },
      "my-custom-image-2": {
        "eu-central-2": "ami-03889118047373658"
      }
    },
    "images-by-group": {}
  }

Parameter substitution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are cases where part of the configuration file needs to be dynamic.
`awspub` supports basic template substitution (based on Pythons `string.Template class <https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#template-strings>`_) .

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-with-parameters.yaml
   :language: yaml

> In this config, the identifier which will be replaced is `$serial`. The mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the config file shown above, the identifier `$serial` will be replaced with a value that is defined in another YAML file.
```

> that is used to replace an identifier with a actual value is also a yaml file

Reviewer: Delete this line.

> which contains a mapping structure (dict in Python) that maps identifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This YAML file (say ``config-mapping.yaml``) contains a mapping structure (dict in Python) that maps identifiers
```

to values:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-with-parameters.yaml.mapping
   :language: yaml

> Using both together now with `awspub`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using both these config files, the command for `awspub` becomes:
```

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml --config-mapping config-mapping.yaml                
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-20171022": {
        "eu-central-1": "ami-0df443d5919e31d1b"
      }
    },
    "images-by-group": {}
  }

Image groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~

There might be cases were the different commands (e.g. `awspub create` or `awspub publish`)

> should only be applied for a subset of the defined images. That's possible with the `group`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should only be applied on a subset of the defined images. That's possible with the `groups`
```

Reviewer: :) I changed it to 'groups' because the keyword in the config file is that!

Author: OOH you're right! it's just the argument flag that's singular, great catch!

config option:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-groups.yaml
   :language: yaml

Now the different `awspub` commands do have a `--group` parameter to filter which

> images this command should operate on:

Reviewer: Change this statement to:
Use the --group parameter to filter the images that the `awspub` command should operate on:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml --group group1
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-1": {
        "us-west-1": "ami-09461116d07dd6604"
      }
    },
    "images-by-group": {
      "group1": {
        "my-custom-image-1": {
          "us-west-1": "ami-09461116d07dd6604"
        }
      }
    }
  }

  awspub --log-file awspub.log create config.yaml --group group2
  {
    "images": {
      "my-custom-image-2": {
        "us-east-1": "ami-018539227554e51fe",
        "ca-central-1": "ami-071d3602417c28201"
      }
    },
    "images-by-group": {
      "group2": {
        "my-custom-image-2": {
          "us-east-1": "ami-018539227554e51fe",
          "ca-central-1": "ami-071d3602417c28201"
        }
      }
    }
  }

> So the first command only works with images defined in `group1` while the second command only with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first command is applied only to images defined in `group1`, while the second one is applied only to
```

images defined within `group2`.

.. note::
   If no `--group` parameter is given, the different commands operate on **all** defined images.

Public images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To make images public, the configuration needs to have the `public` flag set for
each image that needs to be public.

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-public.yaml
   :language: yaml

> The the image needs to be created and published:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image needs to be created and then published:
```

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml
  awspub public config.yaml

AWS Marketplace
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> It's possible to publish to `AWS Marketplace <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/user-guide-for-sellers.html>`_ if a entity of a `Single-AMI product <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/ami-single-ami-products.html>`_ already exists, an access role ARN is available and an AMI exists in the `us-east-1` region. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to publish to `AWS Marketplace <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/user-guide-for-sellers.html>`_ if an entity of a `Single-AMI product <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/ami-single-ami-products.html>`_ already exists, an access role ARN is available and an AMI exists in the `us-east-1` region. 
```

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-marketplace.yaml
   :language: yaml

The image needs to be created first and the `public` command will request a new Marketplace version
for the given entity:

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml
  awspub public config.yaml

SSM Parameter Store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's possible to push information about published images to the `SSM Parameter Store <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html>`_. That's

> useful e.g. to have a common way to get the latest image Id on different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
useful e.g. to have a common way to get the latest image ID in different
```

regions. To push image information to the parameter store, the `ssm_parameter`
configuration for each image must be filled:

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-ssm.yaml
   :language: yaml

> with a corresponding mapping file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
along with a corresponding mapping file:
```

.. literalinclude:: config-samples/config-minimal-ssm.yaml.mapping
   :language: yaml

> Create the image and the `public` command will also push information to the parameter store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the image and use the `public` command to publish the image and also push information to the parameter store:
```

.. code-block:: shell

  awspub create config.yaml --config-mapping config.yaml.mapping
  awspub public config.yaml --config-mapping config.yaml.mapping

Resource tags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The different resources (S3 objects, snapshots and AMIs) can have tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The different AWS resources (S3 objects, snapshots and AMIs) can have tags associated with them.
```
